---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "hyperv Provider"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# hyperv Provider



## Example Usage

```terraform
# Configure HyperV
provider "hyperv" {
  user            = "Administator"
  password        = "P@ssw0rd"
  host            = "127.0.0.1"
  port            = 5986
  https           = true
  insecure        = false
  use_ntlm        = true
  tls_server_name = ""
  cacert_path     = ""
  cert_path       = ""
  key_path        = ""
  script_path     = "C:/Temp/terraform_%RAND%.cmd"
  timeout         = "30s"
}

# Create a switch
resource "hyperv_network_switch" "dmz" {
}

# Create a vhd
resource "hyperv_vhd" "webserver" {
}

# Create a machine
resource "hyperv_machine_instance" "webserver" {
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `cacert_path` (String) The path to the ca certificates to use for HyperV api calls. Can also be sourced from the `HYPERV_CACERT_PATH` environment variable otherwise defaults to empty string.
- `cert_path` (String) The path to the certificate to use for authentication for HyperV api calls. Can also be sourced from the `HYPERV_CERT_PATH` environment variable otherwise defaults to empty string.
- `host` (String) The host to run HyperV api calls against. It can also be sourced from the `HYPERV_HOST` environment variable otherwise defaults to `127.0.0.1`.
- `https` (Boolean) Should https be used for HyperV api calls. It can also be sourced from `HYPERV_HTTPS` environment variable otherwise defaults to `true`.
- `insecure` (Boolean) Skips TLS Verification for HyperV api calls. Generally this is used for self-signed certificates. Should only be used if absolutely needed. Can also be set via setting the `HYPERV_INSECURE` environment variable to `true` otherwise defaults to `false`.
- `kerberos_config` (String) Use Kerberos Config for authentication for HyperV api calls. Can also be set via setting the `HYPERV_KERBEROS_CONFIG` or `KRB5_CONFIG` environment variable otherwise defaults to `/etc/krb5.conf`.
- `kerberos_credential_cache` (String) Use Kerberos Credential Cache for authentication for HyperV api calls. Can also be set via setting the `HYPERV_KERBEROS_CREDENTIAL_CACHE` or `KRB5CCNAME` environment variable otherwise defaults to empty string.
- `kerberos_realm` (String) Use Kerberos Realm for authentication for HyperV api calls. Can also be set via setting the `HYPERV_KERBEROS_REALM` environment variable otherwise defaults to empty string.
- `kerberos_service_principal_name` (String) Use Kerberos Service Principal Name for authentication for HyperV api calls. Can also be set via setting the `HYPERV_KERBEROS_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_NAME` environment variable otherwise defaults to empty string.
- `key_path` (String) The path to the certificate private key to use for authentication for HyperV api calls. Can also be sourced from the `HYPERV_KEY_PATH` environment variable otherwise defaults to empty string.
- `password` (String) The password associated with the username to use for HyperV api calls. It can also be sourced from the `HYPERV_PASSWORD` environment variable`.
- `port` (Number) The port to run HyperV api calls against. It can also be sourced from the `HYPERV_PORT` environment variable otherwise defaults to `5986`.
- `script_path` (String) The path used to copy scripts meant for remote execution for HyperV api calls. Can also be sourced from the `HYPERV_SCRIPT_PATH` environment variable otherwise defaults to `C:/Temp/terraform_%RAND%.cmd`.
- `timeout` (String) The timeout to wait for the connection to become available for HyperV api calls. Should be provided as a string like 30s or 5m. Can also be sourced from the `HYPERV_TIMEOUT` environment variable otherwise defaults to `30s`.
- `tls_server_name` (String) The TLS server name for the host used for HyperV api calls. It can also be sourced from the `HYPERV_TLS_SERVER_NAME` environment variable otherwise defaults to empty string.
- `use_ntlm` (Boolean) Use NTLM for authentication for HyperV api calls. Can also be set via setting the `HYPERV_USE_NTLM` environment variable to `true` otherwise defaults to `true`.
- `user` (String) The username to use when HyperV api calls are made. Generally this is Administrator. It can also be sourced from the `HYPERV_USER` environment variable otherwise defaults to `Administrator.
