---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "hyperv_vhd Resource - terraform-provider-hyperv"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This Hyper-V resource allows you to manage VHDs.
---

# hyperv_vhd (Resource)

This Hyper-V resource allows you to manage VHDs.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "hyperv_vhd" "web_server_vhd" {
  path                 = "C:\\data\\VirtualMachines\\web_server\\Virtual Hard Disks\\MobyLinuxVM.vhdx"
  source               = ""
  source_vm            = ""
  source_disk          = 0
  vhd_type             = "Dynamic"
  parent_path          = ""
  size                 = 21474836480
  block_size           = 0
  logical_sector_size  = 0
  physical_sector_size = 0
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `path` (String) Path to the new virtual hard disk file(s) that is being created or being copied to. If a filename or relative path is specified, the new virtual hard disk path is calculated relative to the current working directory. Depending on the source selected, the path will be used to determine where to copy source vhd/vhdx/vhds file to.

### Optional

- `block_size` (Number) This field is mutually exclusive with the fields `source`, `source_vm`, `parent_path`. Specifies the block size, in bytes, of the virtual hard disk to be created.
- `logical_sector_size` (Number) This field is mutually exclusive with the fields `source`, `source_vm`, `parent_path`. Specifies the logical sector size, in bytes, of the virtual hard disk to be created. Valid values to use are `0`, `512`, `4096`.
- `parent_path` (String) This field is mutually exclusive with the fields `source`, `source_vm`, `source_disk`, `size`. Specifies the path to the parent of the differencing disk to be created (this parameter may be specified only for the creation of a differencing disk).
- `physical_sector_size` (Number) This field is mutually exclusive with the fields	`source`, `source_vm`, `parent_path`. Specifies the physical sector size, in bytes. Valid values to use are `0`, `512`, `4096`.
- `size` (Number) This field is mutually exclusive with the field `parent_path`. The maximum size, in bytes, of the virtual hard disk to be created. This size must be divisible by 4096 so that it fits into logical blocks.
- `source` (String) This field is mutually exclusive with the fields `source_vm`, `parent_path`, `source_disk`. This value can be a url or a path (including wildcards). Box, Zip and 7z files will automatically be expanded. The destination folder will be the directory portion of the path. If expanded files have a folder called `Virtual Machines`, then the `Virtual Machines` folder will be used instead of the entire archive contents.
- `source_disk` (Number) This field is mutually exclusive with the fields `source`, `source_vm`, `parent_path`. Specifies the physical disk to be used as the source for the virtual hard disk to be created.
- `source_vm` (String) This field is mutually exclusive with the fields `source`, `parent_path`, `source_disk`. This value is the name of the vm to copy the vhds from.
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `vhd_type` (String) This field is mutually exclusive with the fields `source`, `source_vm`, `parent_path`. Valid values to use are `Unknown`, `Fixed`, `Dynamic`, `Differencing`.

### Read-Only

- `exists` (Boolean) Does virtual disk exist.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `read` (String)
- `update` (String)


